# The politics of the space age

Economic globalization has internationalized the space marketplace, creating new economies of scale, spurring innovative services, and promoting the rapid spread of space technology, including in the military sector. (36)

## A Rocky start in Space

Space became symbolic of the struggle between communism and democratic capitalism, making cooperation highly unlikely. (38)

This situation raised the specter of a stark trade-off: either space was going to continue to be a weapons-testing venue or it would be developed for scientific, commercial, and passive military purposes. (40)

"situation" == weapon testing and war tension between countries

## Learning to shake hands with the enemy

A lot of political race (40-42)

A lot of technical difficulty, accidents and dead (43-44)

The lack of a docking mechanism among the programs' spacecraft

Implementation would have to wait for a thaw in political and technical relations. (45)

## Detente in Space

New rules created safety and predictability, while not ending competition (47)

Different level of development between country makes global policy maker to derive treaty. (48)

The treaty called upon states to accept an "equitable sharing" of benefits that would take into account the "interests and needs of the developing countries." (49)

## Back on the Precipice of Space Conflict

Further research showed that ambitious scientists had oversold the technology, and the costs were far too high. But politics ended up making a greater difference. (51)

## Early post-cold war cooperation

These development highlighted how much the space economy had changed since the Cold War, when the US could act with virtual impunity in controlling the commercial space market. (54)

`impunity`: exemption from punishment or freedom from the injurious consequences of an action.


## Challenges of Twenty-first-century space politics

Increasing competition meant more countries and more objects in space. (56)

Still, political tensions - particularly between the US and China - made such comprehensive cooperation seem difficult to reach. (57)

## Conclusion

+ "peaceful purposes" and international space relation are becoming far more complicated issues. (57)

+ The rapid growth of commercial human spaceflight in the next decade will put a new premium on preserving safe access to space, possibly constraining national militaries. (57)
