# Civil Space: Science and Exploration

+ Scientist typically are the most cooperative of all participants in space activity, however they are funded by government.

## Leading civil space programs and plans

### NASA
+ All evidence points to greater civil space cooperation, particularly as the technical contributions of international partners continue to grow. The chapter questioned whether it will be the leader, or the model will change.

### European Space Agency (ESA)

+ Many some success and failure coolaborating with outside partners
+ Financial unstable
+ China an intellectual property theft

### Russian Space Agency (Roscosmos)

+ Lacking quality control.
+ Lacking government funding

### Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA)

+ Promoting scientific cooperation, while also has political motives. (75)

### China

+ Mainly to expand its technological base, building domestic political support, and increasing international prestige. (76)
+ Experienced a steady record of successes, while benefiting from lower labor and hardware costs (77)

### Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO)

+ Feels the need to step up its game in civil space in order not to fall further behind China

## Trends in Civil space competition and cooperation

+ Their respective activities will result in future conflicts.
+ Cooperative More closely than ever before because of the influence of the Internet and the relative ease of sharing data.

## Cooperative Approaches on Orbital Debris and Near-earth objects?

Shared environmental challenges in space may have a restraining influence on more-hostile forms of national competition.

### Near-Eath Objects

## Conclusion
