# Space Diplomacy (148 - 167)

- Politics doesn't give a damn about space, until an individual reported something wrong

- With space more crowded by 2007, international condemnation came from all corners.

- These points highlight the important role of diplomacy in any successful space future. The trouble is that to move in this direction, countries have to identify areas of common interest, craft agreements, and rally the political leadership needed to implement the agreements.

## Background to today's deadlock

- CD: UN Conference on Disarmament

- After the Soviet breakup in 1991, most countries no longer viewed space conflict as imminent. As a result, the negotiating mandate on space security at the CD finally expired in 1995.

- Significant international progress toward enhanced space governance has taken place in only one area: orbital debris control.

## The Need for better space Governance

- Rules are hard to create and enforce in a transnational realm like space, meaning that effective governance is a tall order.

- All countries must give up some degree of freedom, however they stand to receive the benefits of restraint by other actors as well.

- Most serious problems today have to do with destructive actions in heavily traveled regions of space. (155)

- It remains to be seen if the countries that are worried about space weapon tests, orbital debris, and various types of harmful interference will be able to cooperate both politically and financially to support the creation of such system.

## Current Space Governance Proposals and Debates

- The UN  overwhelmingly approves the PAROS resolution  every year. However it has had little effect because of the CD's failure to agree on an agenda to actually initiate the discussions on space security that the resolution demand. (157)

1. China and Russian to go beyond PAROS in proposing a new treaty to ban space-based weapons.
2. Russian-led initiative to promote transparency and confidence-building measures in space.
3. Proposal for a non-binding space code of conduct.

## Treaty on the Prevention of the Placement of Weapons in Outer Space

- (159) Neither the draft treaty nor the Sino-Russian clarification letter made any mention of international goals of debris mitigation efforts, as approved in the 2007 UN debris guidelines.

## Transparency and Confidence-Building Measures

- In the absence of official meetins at the CD, the work of the GGE represented one of the few forums where official discussions of space security on topics beyond orbital debris.
- The GGE's report endorsed enhanced international cooperation in such areas as disaster warning, space debris mitigation, space  wealth monitoring, and the long-term sustainability of commercial space development. (160)

## Code of Conduct

- While a number of these principles repeated  or reinforced elements of the Outer  Space Treaty and other prior  agreements, their collection in a single document with an emphasis on taking all "adequate measures to prevent outer space from becoming an area of conflict" represented a serious effort to dissuade hostile trends of the past decade. (161)

- National opinion on the code initially varied greatly. Early comments from  Russia, China and Indian indicated a generally negative view on two scores:
  1. The code detracted attention  from new treaty proposals for space.
  2. The code had been written without input from a number of space powers.

- Bringing new ideas and helping strengthen consensus in the revised document.

## Other Initiatives

Despite the comprehensive nature of this proposal - or perhaps because of it - the recommended treaty and organization have yet to gain much official support from space-faring countries

## Current Problems and Possible Options

- Widespread agreement on the fact that the status of space governance is problematic.

- Dilemma of national enforcement in an international realm poses certain inherent problems in the absence of a dominant power.\

## Conclusion

- Concern of national security lead to space governance.
- Diplomatic tools need to be retrieved from the traditional toolbox of international space relations and new ones created to tackle emerging challenges and promote sustainability.
