# Trends and Future Options

- All indicators suggest that space is going to be much more complicated  place as the 21st century move forward.

- Trying to chart the future in space is a matter of identifying the key technological variables that will influence space activity and assessing the dynamics of power and influence among major actors

- Futures
  1. military hegemony based on relative power
  2. piecemeal global engagement based on consensual norms
  3. Enhanced international institutions based on new treaties and legal mechanism

## Key Trends and Challenges

### Evolving Space Assets and Actors

- Changes in who will be operating satellites and manned spacecraft
- Significant growth will also occur in the number of companies, universities, governments, and international organizations that can afford satellites as entry costs decrease, particularly in relative term.
- Nongovernmental institutions will be joined by wealthy individuals who will become more directly involved in space activity through personal travel and related  investment behavior.

### Technological Trends and Trade-offs

- Space activity over the next 2 decades will at some level be expansion of prior and existing activities.
- Expansion of national military programs in space.
- No treaty forbids technologies, and there are strong military-industrial lobbies in a number of countries supporting space-based weapons.
- Unlikely that current space governance mechanisms will be adequate to the task of managing foreseeable space risks across the range of new actors and activities.

## Three Alternative Space Futures

### Military Hegemony
- The rise of various friendly space powers in recent years suggests that it may not be necessary that the US or China would be the only option as a space hegemony.

- It also discounts the possibly important moderating role of new actors, such as private companies and international consorta, which are becomingly increasingly influential in affecting space outcomes and are more interested in profits than in power-driven warfare in space.

- Old style hegemonic theories for space-drawn largely from military concepts of previous centuries seem unrealistic.

```
heg·e·mon·ic
ˌheɡəˈmänik/
adjective
ruling or dominant in a political or social context
```

### Piecemeal Global Engagement (181-182)

- `soft governance`, international behavior can be managed by developing new roles and expectations that pressure actors in a community to behave according to consensual social norms.

- By failing to include consideration of national power and by largely excluding military considerations, they risk the emergence of serious security-related problems that such soft organization and incapable of handling.

### Enhanced International Institutions

- Could be highly beneficial to encourage coordination and reduce conflicts.

- Such a set of agreements in space security could work and serve the self-interests of all major actors

- Whether fear of the loss of these benefits will be a powerful enough deterrent to generate progress in the form of new international agreements regarding space remains to be seen.

## Conclusion

- Collaboration  may be the only way of maintaining  sustainability in space.

- Realization that acquiring such capabilities would undoubtedly involve such enormous costs and strong foreign reactions that they would never be worth it.

- Commerce remains an untapped region.

- The real challenge is to develop and distribute resources in a manner that meet three objectives:
  1. Allowing entrepreneurs to profit from the necessary new technologies
  2. Protection of the space environment
  3. Prevention of international conflict over resources.

- How these initiatives (Moon or Antarctica) will be cooperatively managed thus represents the biggest single challenge.
