Chapter 2 began with an observation of how the process of globalization boosted the speed of advancement in the space and military sector. It then discussed how the tension between communism and democratic capitalism slowed down cooperation led to the question of whether space would be used primarily for military purpose, or for the general good.

After recalled several technical difficulty, accidents, dead, as well as the lack of technology compatibility between nations, and how they slowed down the political/space race, Moltz moves on to discuss how new rules in the space sector kept the competition running while establish safety and standard protocol. Meanwhile global policy maker demanded superpowers to help  developing countries to enter the space race.

Moltz remarked how politic influenced unrealistic space agenda. He then showcased some cooperation and development that shown how the space economy started to balance out across developing nations, and were avoided from being monopolised by superpowers. Moltz reminded that the more competition, the more littered space will be. He closed with how political tensions still influence space cooperation.

Chapter 2 ends with a note at how international peace in space is a complicated issue, and how in order to achieve safe space travel, national military should be limited.

Chapter 3 began by remarking how scientists are the most cooperative in the space sectors. Moltz then discussed several leading space programs. NASA has great civil cooperation thanks to its international relation, but it might not hold the leader seat for long. ESA has some success and failrue collaborating with other party, mostly funding with NASA and intelectual property with China. Roscosmos lacks both control and government funding. Jaxa promotes both science and political motives. China involved mainly to expand its international prestique, political agenda and technology. ISRO wanted to keep up with China.
