Chapter 6 discusses the problem of deriving a space diplomacy that is fair to all related actors.

After discussing how the problem in space switched from warfare to space debris, the chapter looks at three proposals from China and Russia: the first bans warhead in space, the second demands activity transparency, the last a code of conduct to prevent space conflict.

The chapter ends by remarking how agreeing that space governance is problematic is problematic, and how national security and interest makes international collaboration difficult.

Chapter 7 begins by remarking how technology is the only variable to predict space, leading to the discussion of two trends, and three futures.

The first trend is the increasing shift of space influence and control from government military to nongovernmental institutions and the riches. The second being the exponential advancement of space technology, and how it lead to more debris and risks in space.

Moltz then discusses the three possible futures. The first, military hegemony, was deemed unrealistic due to the increasing involvement of new actors, and the lack of warfare tension. The second - piecemeal global engagement - was derived from "soft governance," which expect nations to behave accordingly. This fails sort on security, military and national consideration. The third, enhanced international institutions, could be the optimal future in which collaboration and agreements benefits all related actors.

The chapter concluded with the challenge of developing a space governance that encourages entrepreneurship, protects space, and prevents conflict.

+ Security Dilemma
+ International Dilemma
+ Power Dilemma
+ Prestige
