# C13: The end of Vietnam

- Begin: The Jasons Scientists controversal paper on using nuclear weapons in Vietnam.

- How non-lethal weapons research were classified (218)
- Crowd control had long been an engineering challenge at the Pentagon.
- College activist, following the journalist's revelation, protested violently with the decision of their institution supporting war.
- Students across the nation protest against war, the DoD continued its weapons research and its war in VN.
- A bill was drafted to negate DoD to use its fund on military function, instead to focus on "the public's desire for practical outcomes." (226)
- Chicken and egg problem: If you can't do the research before a need arises, by the time the need is there, it is clear that the research should already have been done. (228)
- The Jasons scientist were protested upon their weapon design. (232)
- Intellectual Superiority Complex (232)
- Setting stage, where ARPAS is now separated from the center of power and with budgets slashed (233)

# C14: Rise of the Machines

- To keep with the Mansfield Amendment, the word "defense" was added to ARPA (238)
- The Marines saw enormous potential in sensor technology, not just for guard and patrol, but for surveillance and intelligence collection. (241)
- C3: Command, Control and Communication (244)
- ARPANET, or Intergalatic Computer Network: the most successful project ever undertaken by DARPA (247)
- How several technology during the Vietnam-era were re-reviewed. Drone technology.
- A simulator that simulate real-life combat, skills one could not practice until the first day of real combat. (255)
- DARPA, unlike most agencies, is allowed to fail some fraction of the time.
- How Jack Thorpe's flight simulator inspired MMO

# C15: Star Wars and Tank Wars

- Science fiction novel the Garin Death Ray, Alexei Tolstoi's 1926 inspired the X-ray
- A whole new way of preparing for war, adding with competition
- How fiction war could cross path with real war
- Real event coincided with simulated world
