# C24: Drone Wars

Open: Obama Curtailing the use of Drone

Micro Air Vehicles (MAVs)

By June 29 2007, Americans now carry in their pockets more technology than NASA had when it sent astronaut to the moon. (412)

DARPA scientist working on such cyborg programs invariably describe the programs as designed to help society. (413)

The demonstration was still highly military based (414-415)

Fully Autonomous drone discussion (417 - 418)

# C25: Brain Wars

There are two technologies that play key roles in advancing artificial intelligence: (420)

- Computing
- Neuroscience

DARPA's job is to "create and prevent strategic surprise" (425)

The prosthetic arms were worked on by a contractor from DARPA, but eventually wasn't seems to be benefiting war veterans. The arm which cost 650k has yet to find a partner to mass produce. (427)

Most of the research effort was for dual purpose, mostly to engineer hunter-killer robots. (429)

The fact that although the machine is smart, it cannot perform something the brain can easily do, as in recognizing a person. (430 - 431)

One of the most powerful facts about DARPA as an organization is that it includes theoretical scientists and engineers in its ranks. (432)

The genius of DARPA: They fund Question. (433)

For the public to stay informed, the public has to be informed. (436)

# C26: The Pentagon's Brain

## 450:

Why is the erasure of fear a federal investment? The answer to it all, lies at the heart of the military-industrial complex.

## 452:

The program is called "Killer Robot" and its motto offered prescient words: "The battlefield is no place for human beings."

Attention: When the hydrogen bomb was being engineered, the military-industrial complex - led by defense contractors, academics and industrialist - was just beginning to exert considerable control over the Pentagon. Today that control is omnipotent.

Another difference is that the making of the hydrogen bomb was made in secret, while the hunter-killer robots while not widely know is not secret.
