# Health, Foreign Policy and Global Health Diplomacy

- Emergence of the term 'global health diplomacy'. (49)

- The strong normative dimension maintained by the majority, namely the furthering of a healthier world rather than a more realpolitik line of advancing states' interests. (50)

- Making foreign policy work for health: Global Health policy as health promotion (54)

- Using health to advance foreign policy: Health as soft and smart power. (55)

## Security (56)

- Often termed "national security".

  1. Primarily to protect the state rather than the individual.
  2. Tend to narrowly focused on a limited range of issues.
  3. The interest of foreign policy in promoting national security have tended to prevail over those of health promotion.

## Governance (57)

- Westphalian system mimic the international agreements or standards.
- post-Westphalian system where anarchy was being replaced by a system of global health governance
- States and foreign policy remained crucial in the manner they related on health

## Development (59)

- What health issues are prioritized
- Two concerns: (63)

  1. Manner in which aid is 'stove piped' into narrow programs or disease-specific treatments
  2. Whether aid is related to need.

## Human rights (64)

- Maternal and child health (68)

  - Indicates a broadening of interest in the health and foreign policy arena to a wider spectrum of health condition and vulnerable populations.

- Migration of health care workers (69)

  - Reveals two tension concerning health, human rights and foreign policy between the right of freedom of movement and the right to health; and between the promotion for trade interests, especially the promotion of free trade, and the promotion and the protection of rights.

## International Trade (69)

- For some powerful states, health is an important industry which needs to be protected and promoted internationally as a _business_. (71)

## Global Public Goods for Health (72)

- Often linked to the requirement for some form of global health governance or global health diplomacy to ensure that these are delivered. (72)
- How fear spurred the rapid development of the new relationship between health and foreign policy (73)
- _at some point_ the process of collaboration will benefit states(73)
- How the sharing of data on and samples of new viruses is closely tied to the powerful (74)

## Conclusion

In an age of increased globalization, health and foreign policy need to work more closely together. (76)

The coming together between health and foreign policy was something self-evident because globalization created a need for the two to work together. (76)

Reaffirmed that global health diplomacy is not a natural outcome but a way of constructing the world to promote certain agenda, idea and institutions over others. (77)


> 53
> Natural interest versus Strategically played
