# Security and Health (130 - 157)

Impacts have been constructed in bi-directional, albeit narrow, terms: the manner in which disease may affect military capacity and especially military operations; and the impact of conflict on heath and health care. (130)

Thus, in the first few years of the twenty-first century, a new narrative appeared which placed selected health issues higher on security agendas than ever before, which health agendas became far more sensitized to security concerns. (131)

New health risks had appeared as a result of emerging and re-emerging diseases, increased population mobility, spreading transnational crime, environmental change and bio-terrorism, and that these posed new security dangers. (131)

Purpose of this chapter is to reveal how health security, like other forms of security, is essentially contested and not amenable to a single set of agreed criteria,and thus reflects the interests and agendas of those constructing the concept. (133)

## Bio-security and Global Health Security (133)

Addressed how vague bio-security is, thus the need to identify two particular ways in which bio-security is used, the first focused on those health issues which pose a risk to national security, and the second on those risk to health which have a global dimension. (133 - 135)

The subject of global health security is not security but health Three broad categories of risks: (137)

- _existing threats_ : inadequate investment
- _new threats_ : emerged disease
- _threats which are on the horizons_: pandemic influenza

Purpose: Global health is not about the security or stability of the state or any other collective grouping. Rather it is about promoting health, a traditional task of health services nationally but now taken by the WHO onto a global stage with added urgency.  (140)

## Human security (140)

Human security is strongly linked to the promotion of human rights, often explicitly so. (141)

Most commentators have tended to focus on two of human security's key freedoms: (143 - 145)

- freedoms from want

  - It not only contributed directly to an individual's quality of life, but to the economic life of a state

- freedom from fear.

  - affect confidence in a state and the social order
  - affect regional stability
  - affect military security

Is slippery by design. Due to the broad definition, it has limited analytical or policy value. As a consequence, it has not had the impact in both policy and academic circles which its proponents had hoped for.  (146)

## National and International Security

- Overly restrictive in its understanding of how national security is practiced. (146)

- Military has been replaced by a more diverse range of risks (147)

- The focus on states remains, understanding of the state and state power have changed. (147)

- Potential of a health issue to threaten international stability:

- 4 possible reasons can, in turn, be identified as supporting this claim: (148-150)

  - Health crises may have dramatic effects on the global economy.
  - Poverty and poor health may lead to migration as people seek a better, safer life
  - It is argued that military may be at increased risk from some diseases.
  - Risk from certain diseases are believed to affect eh willingness of states to send troops on peacekeeping missions.

- 2nd broad set of reasons might be a national security problem concerns their ability to affect the internal security of a state. (152)

  - High prevalence of disease is not of itself sufficient to create risks to state security

- 3rd set of reasons concerns high morbidity and mortality rates. (154-155)

- Much more significant in term of potential morbidity is the emergence of new diseases with the potential to become pandemics but as with the (155)

## Conclusion (155)

Identified how the traditionally narrow linkage between health and security has been expanded, in both the academic and policy fields, since the late 1990s.(155-156)

Important: The argument that security's horizons have been broadened beyond the narrow defense of the state against military threats, to include a more diverse range of risks from novel directions. (156)

This chapter identifies 3 distinct ways of seeing the health-security nexus, each of which is different in what it privileges: (156-157)

- _Global Health Security_ is concerned with health promotion on a global scale.
- _Human security_ is concerned with individuals and communities. Its focus however is not on health but on freedom from fear and from want.
- _National Security_ offers a very different perspective on the health-security nexus, where the perspective remains heavily state-centric with the interests of the state privileged over those of individuals or communities within the states.
